feat(style guide): preview docs site (#13689)
newrelic/docs-website: src/content/docs/style-guide/writing-docs/processes-procedures/create-preview-document.mdx

---
title: Create content for the preview docs site
contentType: page
template: basicDoc
topics:
  - Basic style guide
  - Writing guidelines
redirects:
---

> The preview docs site hosts preview docs for upcoming features that we share with customers.

Reviewer: I can think you can safely remove the second "preview" in this sentence :)

Reviewer: I think one thing that would be nice to have in this first paragraph or section is what someone will get out of taking the time to read this whole doc. By the end, do we want people do be able to contribute to the preview doc? Do we want people to understand what the preview docs site is? What do we want people to know about it?

We can do our readers a kindness by giving them a sense right at the start about what they'll get out of spending their time (a non-renewable resource!) reading this.

> Unlike the public docs site, the preview docs site is not publicly editable and does not appear in search engine results. Additionally, the site is not indexed, so you can't navigate from one preview doc to another. Because the preview docs site is located in a different repo than the public docs site, contributing looks a little different.

Reviewer: Contractions are your friend :) "does not" --> "doesn't"

Reviewer: I'd use "repository" for first use and then repo is probably fine thereafter

> Follow the steps below to create and edit preview docs.

Reviewer: I think you can delete this sentence

Reviewer: And replace it with something that describes the whole process in an overview kind of way.

> Before you get started, make sure you have done the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

## Set up your local environment [#do-first]

> 

Reviewer: This could use an intro sentence that clarifies you only need to do this once.

> ## Before you write [#do-first]
> 
> - Verify that you have access to the [beta-docs-site repo](https://github.com/newrelic/beta-docs-site). If you do not  have access, contact the #doc-eng-help Slack channel for help.
> - Clone the beta-docs-site repo on your computer.
> - Make sure you're working in the correct repo on Github Desktop.
> - Create a branch off the beta-docs-site repo to store your work.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Set up your local environment [#do-first]

1. Go to the [`beta-docs-site repo`](https://github.com/newrelic/beta-docs-site). If you do not have access, contact the #doc-eng-help Slack channel for help.
2. Clone the beta-docs-site repo on your computer.
3. Make sure you're working in the correct repo on Github Desktop.
4. Create a branch off the beta-docs-site repo to store your work.
```
```

  
## Create a new preview doc [#create-docs]

> 

Reviewer: This could use an intro sentence clarifying that, for the most part, the formatting and syntax of the content is the same as we use on the public docs site.

> Once in the beta-docs-site repo:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once you're in your working branch:
```

> 1. In `/src/content/docs/`, find a good location for your doc.
> 2. Using your text editor, create a new `.mdx` file or copy an existing doc.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Using your text editor, create a new `.mdx` file or copy an existing preview doc for the frontmatter template.
2. Save the file in `/src/content/docs/`.
```

Reviewer 2: We don't have to place the new file in a specific folder because we don't have a left nav in preview docs. Instead, we just save it in /src/content/docs, and it automatically organizes it alphabetically!

Author: Thanks for clarifying that!

> 3. Write your content, making sure to include any info about accessing the preview feature you're documenting.

Reviewer: I prefer "sign up for and request access to the preview feature you're documenting"

4. Commit your changes and create a pull request.
5. Share the preview link with reviewers and implement any feedback.
6. Merge the final PR.

> 7. Create the official link by pasting the path name after https://docs-preview.newrelic.com/docs/.(Example: https://docs-preview.newrelic.com/docs/new-relic-distribution-of-opentelemetry)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
7. Create the official link by pasting the path name after `https://docs-preview.newrelic.com/docs/` (For example: `https://docs-preview.newrelic.com/docs/new-feature-name`)
```

Let's replace the real OTEL preview link with a fake one (so the public won't have access to that doc).

Author: That makes sense. Wasn't sure about the formatting there or including the OTEL...

8. Provide reviewers the official link to share with customers.

> ## Optional boiler plate text [#boiler-plate]

Reviewer: It might be worth clarifying why this is optional and when someone might choose to add this callout or not.

When writing a doc for preview, you may want to include a [callout](/docs/style-guide/formatting/callouts/) with boiler plate text at the top of the doc. This text orients your reader, providing them with important information about the feature's availability.
For example, boiler plate text for a preview doc might read:

<Callout variant="caution" title="Preview">
  This feature was released on January 1, 202X and is in preview. To get access to it, reach out to your account manager.
</Callout>

## Additional guidance for internal contributors [#internal-contributors]

> Often, when Internal Contributors want to make a change to a preview doc, they’ll make a fork of the beta-docs-site repo. Because we don’t accept PRs from forked repos, you’ll need to ask the #doc-eng-help Slack channel for access to the repo. Once you receive access, you can make a branch off the beta-docs-site repo. If you've already created a PR from a forked repo, you'll need to close it and create a new PR that branches off the beta-docs-site repo.

Reviewer: I'd lowercase "Internal Contributors"

Reviewer: There's a typo in "create your own branch of the `main` branch" should be "off the `main`"

> Often, when Internal Contributors want to make a change to a preview doc, they’ll make a fork of the beta-docs-site repo. Because we don’t accept PRs from forked repos, you’ll need to ask the #doc-eng-help Slack channel for access to the repo. Once you receive access, you can make a branch off the beta-docs-site repo. If you've already created a PR from a forked repo, you'll need to close it and create a new PR that branches off the beta-docs-site repo.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As an internal contributor looking to edit a preview doc, you'll need access to the beta-docs-site repo. If you don't have access, ask the #doc-eng-help Slack channel to add you as a contributor. Once you have access, create your own branch of the `main` branch and make your edits there.
```

@paperclypse What do you think about addressing internal contributors directly? Are we expecting to share this doc with them?

Reviewer: @ally-sassman I think it's fine to address individual contributors
